---
template: SinglePost
title: A framework for improving conversion rates
status: Published
date: 2020-06-26T08:12:00
tags:
 - conversion rate optimization
 - marketing
 - strategy
featuredImage: '../images/2020-06-26.png'
excerpt: >-
 Conversion rate optimization yields enormous results with well designed strategies. Optimal execution takes perseverance and is not a quick-fix solution. Here's a 12-point framework on how to improve conversions on an ongoing basis.

categories:
  - category: Notes
---
Conversion rate optimization yields enormous results with well designed strategies. Optimal execution takes perseverance and is not a quick-fix solution. There are many guides out there that are either endlessly long or entirely too vague. This list is meant to help highlight immediate wins and serve as a framework for implementing continual improvements.


1. *Streamline overall site design* - remove distractions, especially above the fold. Use simple, clear headings and rely heavily on imagery.
2. *Communicate the problems solved* - tell customers/clients what problem you are solving for them. Introduce the problem if not abundantly clear & tell them how you solve this.
3. *Display clear call-to-action* - make it exceedingly clear what a visitor should do on each page. Include a primary CTA (above the fold) and one secondary option.
4. *Give secondary CTA options* - not every customer is at the same stage and ready to make a purchase. Give hesitant customers another chance, i.e. email signup, free guide, more info
5. *Demonstrate benefits* - demonstrate with images and text how your products helps your customer. Technical details should be less prominent than benefits.
6. *Apply consistent design* - choose a color scheme (~4-6 colors) and some fonts (2-3) and stick to them everywhere. Consistency goes a long way to improving perception.
7. *Set clear shipping terms* - make it clear how much shipping will cost, how long it will take, and give a free shipping option. Customers prefer to spend money on product over shipping.
8. *Remove any payment concerns* - instill confidence that returns/refunds will not be a hassle, give reliable payment options. Assuage any concerns potential customers may have.
9. *Optimize speed & user experience* - slow loading sites and poor UX make a bad impression on customers & new visitors. Improve the loading time, improve the UX, especially on mobile.
10. *Configure proper  tracking* - implement analytics tracking well from the start and use well designed a/b test. It's much easier to identify problem areas with consistent data.
11. *Gather customer feedback* - give customers a chance to give feedback. hone in on both problems that nearly prevented purchases and the reasons they chose to become a customer.
12. *Run real tests* - test the site yourself by running through the entire purchase cycle. Consider the mindset of your customers and identify potential problems & improvements.

There are certainly items missing from the list. It's designed as a general framework that can be used repeatedly rather than reviewed as a checklist. The key is to consider CRO as an ongoing process, rather than a one-time checklist. For more help with CRO, check out our [conversion rate optimization solutions](https://ecomloop.com/solution/ecommcerce-conversion-rate-optimization-services/). 
