---
template: SinglePost
title: Communicate the problem solved
status: Published
date: 2020-07-12T08:05:00
tags:
 - conversion rate optimization
 - headless way
 - marketing
featuredImage: '../images/2020-07-12.png'
excerpt:
 Don't make website visitors guess as to what's going on behind the scenes. Establish a problem, then provide a solution.
categories:
  - category: Notes
---
It's easy to overlook the importance of stating the problem. Often, a solution is often proffered with an assumption of a shared understanding of the problem. By stating the problem clearly, it's much easier to [communicate the benefits](https://ecomloop.com/posts/describe-the-benefits/) in a meaningful way.

This is one of the tenets of out conversion rate optimization framework, and is one of the most often overlooked. From the view of the business, the problem the business/product solves is so obvious that it doesn't need to be stated. It's important to keep in mind that visitors and potential customers only see what is presented to them.

They don't know the inner workings behind the reasons for each feature, nor care about the amount of work that went into the solution.

The visitor only sees what is presented to them. Make it exceedingly clear the reason the product/business exists. Once established, move on to informing why your business/product is the only product that can address the problem in a suitable manner.

There's a meditation practice described as the 'headless way' that comes to mind. There is a lot going on inside each of our own minds and the outside world never sees most of that.

Don't make website visitors guess as to what's going on behind the scenes. Establish a problem, then provide a solution.
