---
template: SinglePost
title: Going headless
status: Published
date: 2020-06-02T07:51:00
tags:
 - physical retail
 - headless commerce
 - retail apocalypse
featuredImage: '../images/2020-06-02.png'
excerpt: >-
 On the other hand, it's much easier to make the case for investing in headless digital commerce. Hold inventory separate from the shopping experience. Make products shoppable through digital means on any channel/medium. Delivery the products with fast fulfillment. These look forward-thinking investments that will continue to payoff in the digital commerce transformation.

categories:
  - category: Notes
---
There's never been a stronger case for headless commerce. Local stores and restaurants across the country are rightfully concerned about the threat of damage, and were already facing significant challenges. The costs and benefits of physical retail have completely changed.

Before the pandemic, local retail [faced numerous challenges](https://ecomloop.com/posts/too-much-retail-space/) as consumers increasingly moved to digital commerce. Faced with high overhead costs, many retail stores had already made the choice to close stores.

After suffering months of closure in most of the country, local businesses dealt with new regulations, health concerns, and reduced customer demand as they began to reopen. And now, with peaceful protests being taken over by opportunists, local stores have become a target and thus a liability.

It's hard to justify the increased costs of running a physical retail store when the potential benefits are already reduced. Large retail chains with other means of distribution may be the first to make the choice willingly. As large retailers begin leaving shopping areas, many neighboring businesses will likely suffer from further reduced shopping activity as storefronts sit empty.

On the other hand, it's much easier to make the case for investing in headless digital commerce. Hold inventory separate from the shopping experience. Make products shoppable through digital means on any channel/medium. Delivery the products with fast fulfillment. These look forward-thinking investments that will continue to payoff in the digital commerce transformation.
