---
template: SinglePost
title: Drone delivery service from Dive
status: Published
date: 2020-05-21T7:46:27
tags:
 - drone delivery
 - ecommcerce
 - last mile delivery
featuredImage: '../images/2020-05-21.jpg'
excerpt: >-
 Dive Delivery is conducting tests on a drone delivery service in a couple of Bay Area counties. Yesterday, they "dived in" to my driveway to deliver two face masks and a small bottle of hand sanitizer.
categories:
  - category: Notes
---
[Dive Delivery](https://divedelivery.com/) is conducting tests on a drone delivery service in a couple of Bay Area counties. Yesterday, they "dived in" to my driveway to deliver two face masks and a small bottle of hand sanitizer.

Delivery via drone has been in the works for at least the last seven years or so, with Amazon making big announcements about [drone delivery back in 2013](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/amazon-unveils-futuristic-plan-delivery-by-drone/) and starting Prime Air in 2016. There have been tests conducted over the years and as far as I know, there are not currently any services routinely making deliveries via drone.

Earlier this month, Dive Delivery announced they would be conducting test deliveries in San Mateo and Contra Costa counties. After filling out an interest form on May 07, they contacted me via email yesterday morning to let me know they'd be conducting tests in San Mateo that day. The email included a private link to make a purchase for the only item currently offered: two facemasks and a small bottle of hand sanitizer.

Later in the day, Dive texted me an update saying the delivery would arrive in about 20 minutes. Two people showed shortly thereafter with a drone in hand and identified a good landing spot. They conducted a quick test run, then attached a small package via string to make the actual drop.

Dive Delivery appears to be a new service from [Airzus](https://airzus.com/), a drone services and consulting business. There's not much info about the company available yet and it will be interesting to see where this goes next. [Technology is coming faster](https://ecomloop.com/posts/innovation-is-coming-faster-to-digital-economy/) and if drone delivery is going to become a part of last mile delivery, this is the right time to make some big leaps. Demand for ecommerce is surging, touchless delivery is crucial, and drones have come a long way in the last 5 years.
