---
template: SinglePost
title: Precision breeds slowdown
status: Published
date: 2020-11-12T11:11:00
tags:
 - data
 - analytics
 - incentive design
featuredImage: '../images/2020-11-12.png'
excerpt:
 While technology should greatly increase speed of decision-making, there's a point where it tips in the other direction due to precision. In some areas, this may be inevitable. For most organizations, it's entirely possible to use technology to get most of the way there, and know there are points at which precision is no longer beneficial to the outcome.

categories:
  - category: Big tech trends
---
Precision generally arises from the use of more inputs, as well as more ways to analyze the current results. Because precision draws on more inputs & analytical processes, the time to reach a final decision decelerates towards the end.

Technology has greatly increased the access to information, as well as enabled nearly endless ways to analyze data. It's fairly well understood that data can be used to tell any story, and there's no one way to interpret data. As the inputs and analytical processes increase, the time to find a results gets slower because there's demand to rule out any potential problems.  

This is apparent in the world of sports, as well as in the voting results recently. In sports, replay is being implemented in ways that go beyond the original intention, and often slow down entertainment to the detriment of the viewed. In fact, only tennis has found a suitable way to use technology to help the viewing experience rather than simply become more "precise." Regarding voting, there were many states with delayed presidential results, and there are still other elections and local issues awaiting final results. Delayed election results become normal in 2000, and will likely not go back to being a specific day for the foreseeable future. Precision will demand otherwise.

While technology should greatly increase speed of decision-making, there's a point where it tips in the other direction due to precision. In some areas, this may be inevitable. For most organizations, it's entirely possible to use technology to get most of the way there, and know there are points at which precision is no longer beneficial to the outcome.
