---
template: SinglePost
title: Asana project management app
status: Published
date: 2020-08-29T16:34:00
tags:
 - Asana
 - project management
 - tech stack
featuredImage: '../images/2020-08-29.png'
excerpt:
 As a longtime user, it's evident the Asana product continually improves, and this S-1 analysis demonstrates how they invest in developing a better product. In 2015, it wasn't obvious Asana would still exist in 2020. Thankfully they built a great product that kept users onboard for the long haul, and now it's apparent the product will be around for a longtime to come.
categories:
  - category: Notes
---
Asana is our project management tool of choice at ecomloop. We use it to manage in-house projects and communications, and often when working on client projects. It's served us incredibly well from the beginning and has been flexible to accommodate a number of different styles of project management methods and use cases.

My experience with Asana(https://asana.com) goes back over 5 years to January 2015. That's longer than I realized (I just looked up my oldest tasks) and it's a lot longer than I often stick with the same SAAS service. Prior to using Asana, I reviewed a number of optinos, including Trello. Though I can't recall what specifically made me choose Asana, I do recall there being a point of needing to choose one service that looked like it would stick around, then get to using it.

Fortunately, I made a good choice. Asana has stuck around and has the platform has only improved over the last few years. An abundance of new features exist, many of which I don't utilize. The platform is flexible enough that all the features aren't entirely necessary, yet are available.

The company Asana recently filed an S-1 to go public. In a breakdown of the Asana S-1 by Tomas Tunguz, he notes how Asana invests [10% more into R&D than a competitor](https://tomtunguz.com/asana-s-1/?utm_source=feedly&utm_medium=webfeeds):

>Asana runs less profitably because of meaningfully bigger investments in both Sales & Marketing (S&M) and Research and Development (R&D). Asana invests 10% more of its revenue in S&M, which is consistent with its higher growth rate. But R&D spend is of a different magnitude. Asana spends almost 2x the percentage of revenue on R&D compared to Smartsheet: 64%. Of all the companies I’ve analyzed, this is the second largest to Hortonworks.

> Notably, Slack and Atlassian also fall into the top 5, and both of these businesses are flywheel models as well, so there’s some precedent for this type of investment.

As a longtime user, it's evident the Asana product continually improves, and this S-1 analysis demonstrates how they invest in developing a better product. In 2015, it wasn't obvious Asana would still exist in 2020. Thankfully they built a great product that kept users onboard for the long haul, and now it's apparent the product will be around for a longtime to come.
