---
template: SinglePost
title: Deploying with Netlify + Github
status: Published
date: 2020-06-15T07:07:00
tags:
 - netlify
 - Github
 - tech stack
featuredImage: '../images/2020-06-15.png'
excerpt: >-
 With Netlify, it takes a few clicks to choose the correct Github repo. Netlify then runs the code to build the site using their own servers. The resulting code is deployed to the domain for the world to see. When changes are pushed to the repo, Netlify is auto-triggered to rebuild the code and deploy the latest version.
categories:
  - category: Notes
---
Netlify and Github work exceptionally well together for publishing sites. Github hosts the backend code, while Netlify manages the front end, making it possible to publish a [Github repo](https://github.com/ecomloop) in a few clicks. The current interation of this site usese this backend setup and we've used it on another half-dozen projects in the last few months.

Github offers a similar solution for deploying sites via Github Pages. That service works great, though is limited to one site per account and has some other limitations compared to Netlify. There's a good [feature comparison](https://www.netlify.com/github-pages-vs-netlify/) on the Netlify site.

With Netlify, it takes a few clicks to choose the correct Github repo. Netlify then runs the code to build the site using their own servers. The resulting code is deployed to the domain for the world to see. When changes are pushed to the repo, Netlify is auto-triggered to rebuild the code and deploy the latest version. It's made the process of deploying sites much faster and simpler from a developer perspective.

On the frontend, the performance has been impressive as well. Combined with the speedy performance of Gatsby sites, all of our Netlify-enabled sites are super-quick to load and the [Netlify status page](https://www.netlifystatus.com/) hasn't shown any issues on the handful of occasion we've checked. We've only had one issue that needed a bit of support regarding Netlify Forms. After posting on the support forum, we received a quick reply.

It's been a great experience building via Gatsby, managing versions on Github, and deploying via Netlify. There's a general feeling of simplicity in the process, and it's made better because it's utilizing modern backend frameworks.
