---
template: SinglePost
title: Canva is an amazing graphic design tool
status: Published
date: 2021-01-05T11:11:00
tags:
 - canva
 - graphic design   
 - saas    
featuredImage: '../images/2021-01-05.png'
excerpt:
  Canva is a graphic design software that lets you create beautiful designs with just a few clicks. You can create designs for a variety of purposes such as email headers, website graphics, Instagram posts, Twitter headers, and more. Lately, I've been experimenting with some of the new video design tools and am quite impressed. 

categories:
  - category: Tech Tools
---
Canva is a graphic design software that lets you create beautiful designs with just a few clicks. You can create designs for a variety of purposes such as email headers, website graphics, Instagram posts, Twitter headers, and more. Lately, I've been experimenting with some of the new video design tools and am quite impressed.

Compared to the old way of graphic design, Canva is much simpler, easier to access, and easy to share. It's a web-based, free/premium SAAS that provides users with a variety of templates they can use for their designing needs.

Years ago (2004-2005) I worked as a web designer for GameDaily.com, and worked extensively with Photoshop. This program is much simpler than Photoshop and has a lot of advantages to offer, such as easy accessibility and the ability to share what you create with others. My job consisted of making banner graphics, web ads, etc for various video game companies running ads on our site. This tool would have made my job incredibly simple and the designs would have been much higher quality. In fact, it would have made it possible for me to work on much more than updating graphics on a daily/weekly basis.

I've used Canva for a long time now, and remember when there were only a few templates to choose from. The number of templates and features has exploded. I'm excited to keep working with the video creation tools and to see what else Canva can offer in the future.
